---
title: Tawhid and the Perception of the Companions
description: The result of the Prophet's education
image: image.jpg
draft: False
date: 2020-03-13
categories:
- Fawa√Ød
---

According to Ibn Massou'd:

"That I swear by Allah while lying is preferable to me than to swear by anything else
while speaking the truth."

This is a great saying by 'Abd Allah Ibn Massou'd, may Allah be pleased with both of them.
It testifies to the perfect understanding of the companions, the special attention they
paid to Tawhid, and also the care given to the terms used, while taking care and warning
against it. He spoke these blessed great words, which show, as I said, the great
perception of the companions and the special attention they paid to the Tawhid of Allah.
He said, may Allah be pleased with him:

"That I swear by Allah while lying is preferable to me than to swear by anything else
while speaking the truth."

Now meditate on the first word and the second, weigh them.

The first word: "That I swear by Allah while lying." The second word: "Than to swear by
anything else while speaking the truth."

Compare the two words to observe this remarkable sagacity. Each of these two words
contains a good action and a bad one. The first phrase contains a good and a bad action.
Similarly, for the second, there is also a good action and a bad one. The first word: "
That I swear by Allah while lying," there is the good action of Tawhid and the bad one
which is lying. For the second word "that to swear by anything else while speaking the
truth," there is the bad action of Shirk and the good action of truthfulness. Now that
this reality has become manifest to you.

A word that contains the good action of Tawhid or the bad action of Shirk?! We seek refuge
in Allah from Shirk, we seek refuge in Allah from Shirk. If you look at the bad actions,
lying is less serious than Shirk. Similarly, the good action of Tawhid is more prominent
than that of truthfulness. Then note this intense perception, he said:

"That I swear by Allah while lying is preferable to me than to swear by anything else
while speaking the truth."

Since the oath by anything other than Allah is Shirk, and the great sin of Shirk is more
important and even more serious than that of lying. This is the perception of the
companions, may Allah be pleased with them.

Author: Cheikh 'Abd Al Razzaq Al Badr, may Allah preserve him.